---
author: "Justin Garrison"
title: "2010 Tech Predictions"
description: "It was fun doing this last year. So I thought I would have another go at it and see what I come up with."
date: 2010-01-01
images: [/img/og-image.png]
thumbnail: /img/og-image.png
draft: false
---

It was fun doing this last year. So I thought I would have another go at it and see what I come up with.

Computers:1. **Netbooks/sub-12″ laptops will be even bigger than before because they will finally be useful.** Atom/ULV processors, Ion/Tegra graphics, and touch enabled devices will make having a 17″ laptop a bad thing. Oh and used/refurbished laptops might play a big role in killing desktops once and for all.2. **Windows Home server will have a big update** (based on server 2008 r2) and will **include Windows Media Center backend and Zune software** so you can plug your tuners directly into your WHS. This will also allow for great integration in Windows Mobile 7 and begin a new wave of extenders. I don’t think it will be out till Q3/Q4 though so extenders won’t make a push until 2011.3. Someone will finally offer a true **alternative to cable TV**. It will probably come from Apple/Netflix/Boxee/Hulu/Microsoft and it will still be an expensive monthly charge but it will be possible to disconnect your cable/satellite. I am thinking Microsoft will begin a Zune Pass for TV which will integrate into Windows Media Center when WHS 2 and WM7 come out.4. Apple will begin talks of their new OS, Microsoft will stay quiet about what they are working (and ride the good wave of Windows 7) on as long as possible, and Linux will be in a transitional phase while KDE and Gnome both get big updates.

Video Games:1. **Nintendo won’t come out with anything new**. They are going to milk the Wii and DS as long as they can and plan for the Wii HD announcement in 2011. **Microsoft will do the same** with the Xbox 360 but they will probably hint that they are making something new before the end of the year.2. Sony will hopefully focus on finishing their projects (home, media codecs, 3D, etc.) and **open up the PS3 to 3rd party programs** in 2010. Things like Netflix and Pandora streaming I don’t think are too far fetched and I really hope to see a **decent browser** come to the console along with Vudu streaming.3. A new mobile console will come out. Probably in the form of a phone, but I expect a lot from Microsoft with Xbox Live on Windows Mobile 7.

Cell Phones:1. Verizon will begin its rollout of LTE and **Apple will announce a device for Verizon**. I have always thought Apple would not make a CDMA device until Verizon starts rolling out LTE and that will happen in 2010. This also means that the device will work on Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile in the US and many GSM carriers around the world once GSM networks start updates. With a device on Verizon Apple will have a huge hold on the mobile market. It won’t go unanswered though.2. **Android will become number 3 in the mobile world**. That is no small feat however. Android is currently the bottom in market share, by a lot. They will win in 4 ways, 1. Cheap devices 2. Multiple options 3. Any Carrier 4. The decline of RIM and Windows Mobile. Windows mobile has already been stagnant for the past 5 months and RIM is losing it’s customers. I don’t think RIM is smart enough to announce something big so they will die off but will still hold a good portion of the market share through most of 2010. Oh, and an official Google phone and a crap load of more updates to the OS won’t hurt either.3. **webOS will gain market share thanks to Verizon** but will still fail to make the impact that the new Apple device will. Palm’s only benefit will be that they will be on Verizon first because they will support CDMA. I really hope they come out with a new phone, but if anything I think they will only announce a new phone in Q3 but not release anything new.4. **Windows Mobile 7 will have features built in that will make any iPhone user gelous.** I am not just talking about cool games, I am talking about ZuneHD player integration, [amazing hardware](http://www.htc.com/europe/product/hd2/specification.html), and media streaming galore. I think they will integrate with the new Windows Home Server/Media Center and will really make seamless media playback better than ever. Not only that but WM7 will be heavily integrated into social networks allowing you to be always connected to your facebook, twitter, email, etc. even more seamless than Android or webOS.5. **Apple Tablet will be huge at first, and then go the way of the Apple TV.** Yes the device will be really cool, yes fanboys/blogs/tech sites will long for the chance to gaze upon the amazing apple logo on the back, and yes it will do really cool things with media playback and music streaming. But if even 1/2 of the rumors are true the device is destined to fail. A ~$800, 10″ tablet you carry around to watch videos, surf the web, listen to music, and play games on really just sounds lame unless I was at home sitting on my couch. And in that case I will just use my laptop or get a netbook preferably with Google Chrome for less than 1/2 the price. I feel weird talking about it when it is really only about a month from being announced. But in all honesty, I don’t see how this would be any better than a device you can actually carry in your pocket like say, a Google Phone. Oh and the tablet will have hardware issues in the first generation.

Other:1. **3D in TV’s will have a big push**. There are finally standards to allow for it and sales will be slow at first because there won’t be much content and prices will be ridiculous. Interest will rise when cable providers announce 3D cable TV offerings for launch in 2011.2. **Retail stores will begin to push online sales and start to lose services** because consumers are getting smarter, or at least more resourceful. With Amazon having as big of a year as they did, stores like Best Buy, Barns n Noble, and Sears just can’t rely on people coming into their stores as much.3. **The Automotive industry will finally push for a standard in electric/hybrid cars.** With so many companies going out of business, automotive makers can’t stay fragmented for long. They will have to agree upon something or they will lose to a up and coming company like Tesla.

Let me know what you think in the comments. Mostly I feel 2010 will be a year of recovery and not innovation. Although necessity is the mother of invention so maybe I am wrong.

---

_Originally published at [1n73r.net](http://1n73r.net/2010/01/01/2010-tech-predictions/) on January 1, 2010._
